---
layout: post
title:  "setup.onnilampi.fi"
headline: "How I automated my shell environment installation"
date:   2018-01-16 00:00:00 +0300
permalink: /blog/automated-shell-setup/
language: en
author: "Onni Lampi"
categories: jekyll update
---

*A small walkthrough of a script I cobbled together*

Every time I start using a new shell environment, it takes some effort to get things running as per my preferences.
That is not really an issue, but as time goes by it is difficult to keep track of the different configurations in different machines:
"Did I remember to update my `.vimrc` since last updating it on my personal computer?"
### Requirements for the script

I started by writing down the requirements and quickly come to the conclusion that this is not that difficult of a job.

* The script needs to run smoothly every time.
* The script can only change things for the user that is currently logged in.
* No conflicts can happen.
* The configurations need to be universal.
* All important dependencies need to be installed by the script.
* The script can be run anytime, it should not fail if something already exists in the environment.
* Some customization need to be possible.

### Implementation

After reviewing the list above, I wrote [this](https://github.com/onnilampi/setup).
The repository also includes all the configurations and the script fetches them from github.
`setup.onnilampi.fi` redirects directly to the latest version of this script housed in github, so it is easy to just run `bash -c "$(curl -fsSL setup.onnilampi.fi)"` in order to run the script.
